# The YUMMY License
### A sustainable, open-source license

The YUMMY approach is an innovative model to create sustainable, open-source projects that are mutually beneficial to creators, builders and users. YoU make Money, we make MoneY, if you don't make money using it, you may use the Software for free. We invest hundreds of hours per year building and maintaining this offering and appreciate the support of the community that benefits from it. Read the details below to apply this license to your project.

1. Permission is hereby granted to any person obtaining (A) a copy of this software (the "Software") and (B) a Single Project, Unlimited Projects or Unlimited Projects Plus License Key (the "License Key") issued by YakData, LLC (referred to as YakData in this agreement) at [YakData.com](https://yakdata.com/), to use the software in production environments (on servers with addresses reachable by public DNS, public IP addresses or commercial private networks). This includes the rights to use, copy and/or modify the Software or copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the conditions in this document.
2. This License Key does not include the rights to publicly or privately sub-license or publish this Software, its copies or any derivations, with or without the purpose of commercial profit. Different licenses are required for copies, third-party packages and derivations of the software, detailed in the articles below.
3. The Software is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement. In no event shall the authors or copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages or other liability, whether in an action of contract, tort or otherwise, arising from, out of or in connection with the Software or the use or other dealings in the Software.
4. The sole copyright holder and author of the Software is YakData at [YakData.com/contact](https://yakdata.com/contact). Any code contributions, suggestions for features/enhancements/big fixes made to the Software by third parties, be it individuals or companies, are considered a gesture of good will, and become the property of the copyright holder upon submission, whether in verbal or written form. The contributors keep the right to use, copy, modify, promote and release the portions of the Software they have contributed, but so does the copyright holder.
5. This copyright notice and permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
6. The current YUMMY License is mandatory for any usage of versions of the Software (commonly referred to as “releases” or “tags”).

**Free on learning/development environments**

7. **Learning and Development Environments**
   Should the Software be used in a development environment where the application is not available under a public DNS address or public IP address, without being used to share and/or prepare and/or present content to clients or final users, no financial reward is expected and the above rights (Article 1) are FREE OF CHARGE. Updating the License Key file for personal use will hide notices about licensing in the product. **Instructions are available at [Meta.YakData.com](https://meta.yakdata.com/).**

**Free for non-commercial use**

8. **Non-Commercial Use**
   Should the Software be used for non-commercial purposes (personal use, personal testing, personal hobbyists, personal websites, personal learning, your personal portfolio of projects), no financial reward is expected and the above rights (Article 1) are acquired FREE OF CHARGE **by updating the License Key file for personal use by following the instructions at [Meta.YakData.com](https://meta.yakdata.com/)**.
9.  **Use in Other Open-Source Packages**
    Should the Software be used in a free open-source package, the above rights (Article 1) are given FREE OF CHARGE. However, the users of the third-party packages incorporating the SOFTWARE will be required to abide by the current License, since the Software is a dependency. Hence, a notice and link should be provided to the third-party package's users, so it is clear that by using the free third-party package in production, they are also using this Software under this license, **and need to purchase a commercial License Key or use a personal License Key as allowed for the Software under this license.**

## Paid for commercial use

10. **Commercial Use**
    Commercial use under this license is when anybody involved in the project that uses the Software makes money. **If anybody** (including but not limited to: the developer, employer, employees or clients) **using the Software inside a project** (by building, maintaining, leasing, renting, selling or reselling the project) **is financially rewarded or employed directly** (wage, commission, subscription, advertising) **or indirectly** (by reducing costs or increasing efficiency in a commercial endeavor), **it is considered commercial use.**
    Any usage by a commercial or non-profit entity is considered commercial use, except for small non-profits as described in section 11 below. Internal usage by a commercial entity is considered commercial use, even if not available on a public IP address. All commercial use requires a paid, current license key available at [YakData.com](https://yakdata.com/).
11. **Non-Profits**    
    Non-profits with total annual organization expenses of less than $100,000 US are considered non-commercial use and may use a free License Key as directed in section 8. Non-profits with total annual organization expenses greater than $100,000 US are considered commercial use.
12. **Should the Software be used for commercial purposes**, the user is required to **purchase a Single Project License Key (per server per domain) on [YakData.com](https://yakdata.com/) for each domain name this software will be used on, before its usage in production**. Alternatively, the user can purchase an "Unlimited Projects" License Key which will allow usage on any number of domain names. Failure to do so is considered illegal commercial use. Users of products under this license on cloud providers using an "image" or similar offering sold by YakData, LLC have a commercial license key included in the hosted offering price. Follow the directions on that hosting image to enable your commercial license key.
13. **SAAS Product Usage**
    *Should the Software be included in Software-as-a-Service product, an "Unlimited Projects Plus" License Key is required**, which can be purchased on [YakData.com](https://yakdata.com/). Such products must add substantial functionality to the Software and be priced significantly above our current pricing.
14. **Use in Commercial Software Packages**
    *Should the Software be included in a commercial package or product** (that is sold, leased or rented to third-parties) **, a special sub-licensing agreement, Unlimited Projects Plus, is required** at [YakData.com/contact](https://yakdata.com/contact).
15. **Ignoring License Requirements**
    *By using the Software in production without a valid Single Project, Unlimited Projects or Unlimited Projects Plus License Key for that project, issued by the copyright holder, the user is considered to be breaching the terms of the current License Key.
16. **Violations of License**
    The copyright holder will attempt to contact the user 10 days before punitive action is taken if contact information is easily available, but is not obligated to do so. **Organizations which have committed a breach of License Key terms can only purchase a special "Redemption License Key", issued individually, priced at least 5 times the current appropriate key price**, depending on the gravity of the breach and estimated foregone earnings. The price of the "Redemption License Key" is to be decided by the copyright holder on a case-by-case basis. Contact [YakData.com/contact](https://yakdata.com/contact) if you discover you are breaching the terms - special consideration is given to those who report themselves.
17. **License Keys are Per Year Only**
    All License Keys are offered on a per year basis (365 days or 366 days for leap year date inclusive periods). If you do not renew a License Key in a timely manner, you may continue to use this key for a grace period not to exceed 10 days past the expiration date, at which point section 16 applies for unlicensed usage.
18. **Disabling License Checks**
    Any modification of this software that results in bypassing or removal of the License Key checks and/or License Key server updates is not permitted and is considered a violation of this license. Modifications that retain the License Key checks and/or License Key server updates in the same form and same locations of use from a production user perspective are permitted.
19. **Free and/or Open-Source Software** 
You acknowledge that third party software components are incorporated in the Software or may be recommended in connection with the Software’s installation and use. Each component may require that YakData provide copyright notices and/or additional terms and/or conditions you must meet. Third Party Licenses may be commonly located in a LICENSE or README file (or similar) accompanying the Software or embedded in the files. Components of the software that are licensed under a free or open-source software license are governed entirely by the terms of those products and are not superseded by this License. Third Party Dependencies are provided “as is”, without warranty of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement. in no event shall YakData be liable for any claim, damages or other liability, whether in an action of contract, tort or otherwise, arising from, out of or in connection with the software or the use or other dealings in said components. Nothing in this license prevents you from acquiring and/or using these third-party licensed products independent of YakData, LLC.

> ** This License is used, in a modified format, with the generous permission of Cristian Tabacitu at backpackforlaravel.com.

Version 1.1. First version of the YUMMY license for YakData offerings updated on 2021-OCT-28.